# Caliptra Trademark Usage Policy

* Authors: Hilary Richardson, Dan Scales
* Reviewed by: Caliptra TAC founding members
* Last major revision: March 30th 2023

The Caliptra project trademarks and logos (“Caliptra Marks”) are licensed
separately from any copyright and patent license grants contained in the
Caliptra project GitHub repositories’ applicable [open source
licenses](LICENSE). Except as provided in this policy and under fair use
exceptions, you may not use the Caliptra Marks without permission.

## Purpose of the Trademark Usage Policy

This legal policy supplements the [Linux Foundation Trademark Usage
policy](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/trademark-usage) and
contains important information. As the steward for the Caliptra silicon root of
trust project, the Linux Foundation holds the Caliptra Marks. This Caliptra
Trademark Policy exists to protect the work of the Caliptra project and the
users of this technology. It ensures that Caliptra users and developers are not
harmed through misrepresentation of the Caliptra project.

In order to succeed in the project goals to increase security for users of
Caliptra implementations and maintain hard-earned trust, the Caliptra name must
be used carefully. Users should know that a Caliptra or Caliptra project-based
product using the Caliptra brand equates to quality and security.

## Acceptable Use

You may use the Caliptra Marks without prior written permission (subject to the
rest of this policy):

1. To refer to unmodified source code, register-transfer-level, or other files
shared in the official CHIPS Alliance Caliptra repositories on GitHub (the
“Caliptra Project”);

2. To refer to the Open Compute Project’s Caliptra specification (the
“Specification”);

3. To refer to the certified, approved chip implementations of the Caliptra
design(s) that have received license agreements in accordance with the
“technical specifications” section of this policy; and

4. To explain or disclose that your design or implementation is based on the
Caliptra Project, designs, or Specification, if and only if (i) the use of the
Caliptra Marks is in accordance with this policy, (ii) the product itself does
not describe itself as being “Caliptra,” and (iii) the product adequately
disclaims that the implementation is not approved by the Caliptra Project or
Caliptra Certified. For example, it is acceptable to say, “This is an unofficial
implementation of the Caliptra Specification. It is not Caliptra Certified.” It
is not acceptable to say, “This is a Caliptra Root of Trust,” unless it has
successfully obtained a Caliptra Certification for that specific implementation.

## Logo Usage Guidelines

The [Caliptra
logo(s)](https://github.com/chipsalliance/Caliptra/tree/main/doc/images/logo)
serve as graphic trademarks for the Caliptra Project. Any use of Caliptra logos
must be in compliance with this policy and the [Linux
Foundation Trademark Usage
Policy](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/trademark-usage).

## Use as a Source Identifier

You may not use the name Caliptra or any close derivatives of Caliptra as the
name of a secure silicon product or any related feature or service without prior
permission.

Use of the Caliptra name should accurately reference implementations or uses of
the Caliptra Project designs and source code in a manner that meets the Caliptra
Technical Framework requirements below. You may not use the Caliptra Marks in
any other manner that might cause confusion as to the source or affiliation of
your product, including but not limited to advertising, websites, social media,
or packaging. You may not use the word “Caliptra,” any Caliptra logos or
modified Caliptra logos in association with any other product, service, or
entity, other than in reference to the Caliptra Specification or Caliptra
Project itself.

## Technical Specifications & Caliptra Certification

Any person may utilize and implement the designs shared in the Caliptra GitHub
repositories, including https://github.com/chipsalliance/Caliptra, according to
the license terms in the relevant [LICENSE](LICENSE) file. However, no
implementations or uses may be referred to as “Caliptra” unless such usage is
approved for Caliptra Certification and the Linux Foundation grants a Caliptra
Certification License.

In order to be eligible for Caliptra Certification, an implementation of the
Caliptra designs must meet the standards of the Caliptra Technical Framework
(“Technical Framework”) approved by the Caliptra Workgroup Technical Advisory
Committee, as described in the [Caliptra Workgroup Technical
Charter](CaliptraWGTechnicalCharter.md).

## Role of the Caliptra TAC

The [Caliptra Workgroup Technical Advisory
Committee](https://github.com/chipsalliance/Caliptra/blob/main/CaliptraWGTechnicalCharter.md#technical-advisory-committee)
(“TAC”) provides technical leadership for the Caliptra open source project and
determines which pull requests may be accepted. The Caliptra Workgroup exists as
part of the Linux Foundation’s [CHIPS Alliance](https://www.chipsalliance.org/).
The Caliptra TAC, CHIPS Alliance leadership and The Linux Foundation work
together on the protection and enforcement of the Caliptra Marks. The Caliptra
TAC will set the criteria and determine eligibility for any Caliptra
Certification.

## Contact Us

We look to our community to help us retain the value of The Linux Foundation’s
trade and service marks.  If you have questions with respect to these guidelines
or to report concerns regarding the use or misuse of a trademark of The Linux
Foundation, or to obtain written permission for a proposed use of The Linux
Foundation trademarks, contact: trademarks@linuxfoundation.org.
